Right now we're going to take a look at
how we can actually remove items from
our cart with a button.
First thing we wanna do is open up our schema.
We're on the backend here.
We're gonna go down to our mutation and just create
a removeFromCart, the ticks and an ID,
very much like it, and it's going to
return that cart item.
It's gonna return the removed cart item.
I'll show you why in the next video,
why it's important to remove the cart item.
Give that a save.
Let's open up our mutation.js and code up
a resolver that matches that removeFromCart.
Go here, make an async function called
removeFromCart, parent, args, ctx, info.
Fino.
Inside of here, we need to do three things.
First we need to find the cart item.
Second, we need to make sure they
own that cart item.
We don't want people deleting items from their cart
if they're not their cart.
And then third, we wanna actually
delete that cart item.
This one's a pretty simple one, I would say.
So if you want a little bit of a challenge,
maybe try to code this up yourself
and then meet me back.
Otherwise let's do it right now.
First thing is find the cart item,
so const cartItem is equal to await.
Don't forget that; remember we did that once?
That sucked.
Ctx.db.query.cartItem,
because we know the ID of the item
because it's gonna come in via the args.
We just coded up the schema saying when someone
calls removeFromCart, we're going to accept an ID.
That's why we are grabbing the argument ID.
For that cart item, we actually wanna grab
the who owns the cart item.
So instead of passing info here
because our final query is not going to
ask for the user, just for the basics,
we really just need the ID.
But here we need to know the user's ID that owns it,
so we pass a manual query here,
and that is we want the ID of the cart item.
We also want the user of the cart item
along with the user's ID.
Next, we need to make sure they own that cart item.
But actually, before we even do that,
let's do a 1.5 here.
Make sure we found an item,
because this is a possibility that someone
hit this endpoint without actually
giving us an ID, and then we don't wanna
move forward with anything.
So we say if there's no cart item,
we'll just throw a new error,
No CartItem Found!
Cool.
Two, make sure that they own it.
So we'll say if the cartItem.user.id,
so if the cart item's user ID doesn't equal
the ctx.request.userId, then we're just going to
throw a new error, Cheatin huhhhh.
In this case, we don't necessarily have to
check that they're logged in
because you'll always have a request,
and if there is no user ID, then it's still gonna
throw that Cheatin huhhhh error that we have.
And then third, we wanna actually delete that item.
So we're just gonna return the promise from here.
Ctx.db.mutation.deleteCartItem.
Remember, if we go to our generated prisma.graphql,
there's going to be a mutation called deleteCartItem
and that takes a where where the ID is there.
So we'll say delete the cart item
where the ID is equal to the args.id.
And then we'll pass the info,
which is the query that's coming in
from the client side, and that should be
enough for us to do that.
Let's flip over to the client side,
so go to yellow.
We're gonna create a new component called
RemoveFromCart.
Go to my components, RemoveFromCart.js.
Import React from react.
Import our mutation from react-apollo.
We're gonna do a little bit of styling,
so import styled-components, import PropTypes,
import gql, and then finally we wanna import
the current user query.
I'm gonna show you in the next video
why we're doing that.
Now go ahead and make our RemoveFromCart.
It's going to have a render.
Let's export default RemoveFromCart immediately.
What else do we need in here?
We need a button that's a styled component,
so const, we'll call it a BigButton,
the styled.button.
And inside of that, let's make font size 3rem,
background none, border none,
and we wanna just change the color
when someone hovers.
So we'll just say color, grab it from our theme, red.
Say cursor, pointer.
Inside of this render, we'll return a BigButton.
Has a title of Delete Item.
And then inside of that,
I'll just render out a times symbol.
All right, I think I'm in pretty good shape
just to get something showing up on the page.
Let's open up our CartItem component
and import that RemoveFromCart button.
Scroll right below the closing div
above the CartItemStyles and let's give ourselves
a RemoveFromCart button.
The one thing that we will have to pass to
this RemoveFromCart button is the ID of
the item that we wish to remove.
Sorry, the ID of the cart item that we wish to remove.
So we'll say ID is equal to cartItem.id,
and then let's also make sure that
we're going to accept that via propTypes.
Up here, just gonna say static propTypes is equal to,
gonna grab an ID, which is a PropTypes.string
and that's required.
And things are looking good.
We've got this button here.
When you click it, it obviously does nothing,
but that's going to allow us to remove it.
Next step is that we need to code up a query
for our mutation that will run
when somebody clicks it.
Let's do that above here.
We'll call it Remove From Cart Mutation.
Then we'll call up removeFromCart method,
we'll pass the ID along for the ride,
and then all we care about getting back is
the ID of the item that was deleted.
We don't care about what the title
or the description or the image of
the removed cart item is.
Give that a save, then we can take our mutation
and infuse this thing into it.
We'll go to our BigButton here,
give ourselves a mutation.
Mutation is equal to Remove From Cart Mutation.
And the child of this is an arrow function.
That will give us a removeFromCart method.
I'll also de-structure the loading and the error.
We'll bring our button inside of here.
I goofed something up.
(sings)
Mutation equals remove.
That; there we go.
Then when somebody clicks this button ...
So we'll take this button here,
say onClick is equal to,
and I'm gonna do a little arrow function here.
We will first call the removeFromCart method.
We can also take the loading boolean
and disable this button if we need to.
So we'll say disabled.
And then if anything goes awry,
if we throw one of those errors
we were talking about here,
we could potentially throw the Cheatin error,
or if they've not found a cart item.
So we need to display that to a user somehow,
so we'll just tag a catch onto the end
and then alert the err.message if anything goes awry.
I think this is gonna work, (laughs)
but it's not actually gonna visually remove it.
That's what we're gonna show you how to do
in the next video.
Let's click on this one; click.
Received a status code of 400.
Okay, so bit of an error.
Let's double-check our backend here.
Variable ID, required type of ID was not provided.
Oh, I see what we did; we forgot to actually
pass the ID along with the mutation.
So two ways we could pass the ID.
We could either pass it to the removeFromCart,
so we could go in here.
We could say the variables are going to be
this.props.id, or in the way I prefer to do it,
let me back that up, is just pass it
right in the mutation.
Variables is equal to ID, this.props.id.
That broke again because this should be
an object literal, so pop another set of
curly brackets around.
Should be in good shape.
Let's delete it.
So I think it worked.
If I refresh now, that should be gone.
Gone.
Why doesn't it remove?
First of all, we aren't doing the re-fetch of
the user's cart, which is what we did
in the AddToCart.
Where did we do?
Re-fetch queries, fetching.
But you'll notice that there's a bit of
an issue where if I click on this,
there's a split second where it goes to
the backend and comes back,
and I'm on a fairly fast connection.
What we're gonna do is we're going to
actually update the cache as soon as this is
successfully deleted from the server.
And then in the background, we can go back
and re-fetch behind the scenes.
Stay tuned and we'll do that in the next video.